# Productivity Notes

You're most effective in certain mental states and at certain times of day.
Avoid distractions during those times.

Set small, achievable, short term goals.  As in minutes.  Iterate rapidly.
Formalize your process (write it down, critique it, edit it, refine it).
Eliminate friction in your feedback loops.

You can only concentrate for so long before you become tired, and your body
needs exercise.  Have work sessions no more than 45 minutes ideally, an hour at
most.  Then take a break, stretch, walk around, maybe exercise.

At the end of each day, write a list of things to do the next day.

## Notes
Taking notes organizes your thoughts.  Allow yourself to take notes in any and
of the ways that you want.  Use paper and pencil, pen, paint, watercolor, or
crayon.  Take notes, rewrite them, throw them away.  Use blackboards,
whiteboards, whatever is available to see your thoughts and play with them.

### Markdown
One way to take notes digitally is with
[Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/).  Markdown allows
formatting like links, headers, bold and italic text, horizontal rules, tables,
and so on.  It's a lot easier to type than
[HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML#Markup).  I like to take notes in
Markdown, keep them on [GitHub](https://github.com/), and link to more
information, mostly on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/) and
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/).

#### URL Encoding
There is one gotcha to taking notes in Markdown.  If you have a link that has
special characters in it, you need to replace those special characters with
the appropriate [URL
encodings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percent-encoding).  I most often
encounter this with Wikipedia links that contain parentheses.  The URL encoding
for an opening paren is %28, and for a closing paren is %29.  So
"https://example.com/Contrived_(example)" becomes
"https://example.com/Contrived_%28example%29".
